# The Diffusion Equation

We have developed a program to simulate temperature distribution and development. This has been done using three different algorithms. Namely the Euler forward, Euler backward and the Crank-Nicolson schemes. All the algorithms have different advantages and drawbacks. For instance, the Euler forward scheme is efficient and easy to implement, but can be unstable for unfavorable step sizes. We used these algorithms to evaluate three models. The first being the temperature distribution in a simple one dimensional rod. This was evaluated by simulating the temperature with all three schemes. When moving to the second model, an idealized two dimensional system with a heat source in one end, we had to decide what kind of boundary conditions we wanted to use. We decided to simulate the model with both periodic boundary conditions and hard coded zero temperature at three edges. This leads to two entirely different results. The third model consists of three layers, each with different heat production constants. This was first modeled with the initial parameters, and the second with an extra heat production in the bottom layer. This additional heat production is made by radioactive materials, and alters the temperature distribution throughout the model. The temperature is generally higher, and the distribution is non-linear, which is in clear contrast to the approximately linear distribution seen without enrichment. It was decided to use the Euler forward scheme for both the two dimensional models. As we needed to simulate over a long time span, a lot of the constants had to be scaled up. This had to be done as to avoid unstable results. It is hard to determine which of the schemes is best, as this is entirely decided by what kind of problem you want to simulate, but for this case it was ultimately the ease of implementation and computational efficiency that made us choose the Euler forward scheme for the two dimensional case.

Repository for assignment 5 in FYS4150. The contributers to this project is Robin David Kifle, Sigmund Slang, Sander Wågønes Losnedahl and Vemund Stenbekk Thorkildsen.
